1.what is difference between git pull and git fetch?

git pull: to pull the code from remote repository to local repository and modifies any changes from the code.

git fetch: to fetch the code from remote to local repository but con't modify the code.

2.what is git clone?

it is used to clone the code from remote repository to local repository ,and we modify the any changes from the code and also to push the remote.

3.what is git fork?
it is used to fork the code from one accout to anotherr account.

4.what is git merge?
git merge means to copy the code from one repo to another repo 

and also it copy the all commit id's.

5.what is git rebase?
 
git rebase means,it copy the code from one branch to anotherr branch to another branch 

and also ic convert all the commit id's into single commit id.

6.what is webhook in git hub?

the webhook is used to automatically trigger the jenkins job ,instead of we need a jenkins url and also enable the webhook trigger option in jenkins job

7.what is git hub actions?.
it is nothing but cicd process,but in my environment we are using jenkins server as cicd purpose.

8.how to protect a branches?
goto setting ,select branches option ,in that location we have several options to protect the branches.

9.what is branching strategy?
in my environmet we are using two branching strategy.
but mainly we follows the branching strategy is 

dev/stage/pre-prod

prod

dont push the code from these branches ,to create a sub branch like feature ,
to push the code to feature branch and create a pull request from featrure to dev/stage/pre-prod/prod.

10.what is pull request?
pull request is a technique,which is used to pust the code from sub branch to main branch.
because the main branch is protected that's way we are push the code to sub branch and create a pull request from sub branch to main branch.

11.what is git life cycle?
any changes from the file in your local it will be push into your remote repo 

git add .
first we adding the current modified  files from your work directory to stagging area.

git status 
this command will show the current modified  files 

git commit
this command is used to move the file from stagging areaa to commited arae along with the commit id with messge.

git push origin main
this command push the modified files from your commited area to remote repository.

git add------>git commit------>git push origin branch name----->remote branch.
work directory----->stagging area------>commited area------>remote repository.:wq!
